hi so my name is Rita I'm also from us
lab as Ali and I'll talk about this
identity explosion problem that we have
in state-based our duties and this is a
joint work with Carlos Baqir al-sadr in
journalism which is from Nava the other
two auditors are from as love so maybe
it's not even metal motivates why we
actually do that replication and then
I'll talk about this problem that we
have in security is identity explosion
and then some how we actually builds
charity so this may be useful for people
that are now hearing about see our
duties for the first time and then we
use these techniques to build the borrow
counter that attempts to solve that
problem so ye replicates because it
improves the fault tolerance of our
system we can still reply to our clients
even when some of the servers are down
it improves the performance because we
can place replicas close to our clients
and we just serve the same data from
multiple servers at the same time and we
have an increased throughput but now
since we have more than one copy of the
same data we need to pick which kind of
consistency model we want between these
these copies and we have strong
consistency which is very successful we
decided at the center but once we moved
to wide area networks our clients will
have to wait a lot so just to have an
idea using Google clouds the round-trip
time between London and Mumbai is close
to 700 milliseconds so this means that
if we're running something like pax is
early that is in London we need to
contact a replica in Mumbai because it's
part of our majority that's close to us
and the lower bound on consistency is
one roundtrip our client will wait at
least 700 milliseconds plus everything
else we're doing in our stack the
alternative is we just reply right away
to our clients and we have eventual
consistency we
diverge we have possible conflicts so
how does that work imagine we have three
replicas they are replicating a set
empty set from the starts B adds an
element X I know it sends something to
see seen houses X and now concurrently
you have an addition of X and the
removal of X so this is where so this is
what we call a conflict and here we need
to decide what will happen to our States
and the possible solution series we say
X's in the sets or X is not in the set
and these are to conflict resolutions
that we have in C our duties we have
another other data types like registers
counters Flags maps and two main
variants operation basis database and in
this talk I'll focus on state base and
we'll talk about counters so let's
imagine we have a client and a server
server has the counter at 0 and the
client issues an increment to a serving
since this is a message now the server
takes its state which is 0 and increment
is to 1 later on the client does another
increment sends another message and now
the service state is 2 so the question
is what if M 1 is lost in here we can
see that the final value of the country
will be 1 right because when the server
receives M 2 it will actually have the
value 0 so we'll get 1 and if M 2 is
replicated we'll get 3 here and this is
actually very hard to solve even
Cassandra they have these issue either
properly tried mechanism and they just
mark it as ok it's resolved but we won't
fix it so you see like if it's lost
should the clients
try again or try again and in that case
it doesn't know what the final value of
the counter will be so any stock will
try to solve that and the first step is
to actually keep State on the client so
the client also has the counter state
which starts at zero we increment it and
now we send a message not with the
operation but with the state of the
counter and now the server will do this
trick which will do the maximum of what
it had before and what it does now we do
this again and now you can make the same
questions as before so what if m1 is
lost so that is fine because when we do
this here we get here at zero and we'll
do the maximum between zero and two
you'll get two and we can okay so this
one's and we can even send them to again
and that's fine maximum two of two we we
always get two so can I live and we
solve all our problems so what's the
problem here probably here is that now
if we have two these two clients and
they do this we can stress to the
maximum of the the two because we'll
lose one of the increments rights and
what CRD T's do is to have a counter per
per replica so when clients B doesn't
increment it comments its own entry of
the map the same for clients a and now
the server just keeps all these entries
and the trick with the max we also do it
so like client I can still send these
again and it will do the max here and
we're fine we still handle like these
retry problems now the problem with this
is that this doesn't scale because we
have to keep an entry per all the
clients in the system and how our
observation was that we need to do this
even if some of these nodes live so what
we're going to do here is
is to distinguish nodes that are
permanent that are always in the system
from knows it's joining live and these
transient nodes will borrow the identity
of a permanent not to increment the
counter and when they decide to leave we
have a way to do a safe retirement of
these nodes and incorporate the
increments in the permanent nodes
okay so we've seen notation for maps
sets it's similar and so I'll use these
okay so what's this I this I is replica
identifiers and in the growing country
so before we're mapping replica
identifiers to to natural numbers here
in the despair I'm having a replica
identifier and the natural number and
I'll just represent it like that and if
I have a boolean I'll just so we go from
true to false and that means like from
underline to over line you can think of
it as active to inactive so it's like an
entry that is active to inactive and
I'll talk about dots which are unique
identifiers and for now we'll we're
going to use like geometric figures and
the notation music for that is this bolt
circle okay so this is the same example
we've seen just in another perspective
we have increments
now they merge more increments not a
merge so this has diagram is very useful
to understand the evolution of the state
in CRD tease okay so so one datatype
edwin set with a very old design where
we are mapping elements to a set and
they set as dot that is tagged with a
boolean which will say if the dot is
active or not so we had x and we create
a unique identifier this triangle which
is active for now
and if we want to remove you just mark
it as inactive we do the same thing for
another element we create a new
identifier it's active now
now it's inactive so the problem here is
that even though we have removed these
two elements we are still remembering
them forever and another design without
these Tom stones is to to map these
elements to a set of these dots and
we're going to keep something on the
right which we'll call causal context so
now when we create we add an element we
map it to the to the unique identifier
but we put it on the rights so when we
want to remove we can just forget it
and this is because see seeds on the
right we know it was on the left and it
was removed and this I've learned last
week this was called the nono streak for
some time he's here you want if you want
to ask him about how this works or in
more detail so now you can just add the
same Y element and we remove it and you
see that this is this is great so we add
stuff that happened in our state we
don't care about them anymore we just
drop it
there's no permanent impacts in practice
these dots are not geometric figures as
you might have guessed they are actually
a pair of a replica identifier and the
sequence number and if we have causal
dissemination this causal context can be
which I'll use CC from knowing can be
encoded as a vector and if you don't
have there are still possible in
colleges that you can do but I'll keep
the naive notation so I'll just keep
sorry I'll just keep doing this so
another data type multi-value register
so you see now we have dots mapped to
the value of the register and we have
this causal context there will always
have this causal context because it
allows us to
district where we can forget things so
replicate writes Lisbon it creates a dot
and that is also in the causal context
so when replicate writes another thing
in the register you see it just forgot
about Lisbon now it has a new dot map to
ello and concurrently you have be
writing world and this is what you get
in a multi-value register if you have
concurrent rights in the register when
you emerge them you're going to keep
both and this is problematic because
these not what users are expecting so so
they write something and when they read
they're expecting to read a single value
not like multiple values and this is
actually not related with the talk but
I'll keep just going because I know so
solution you use the left writer wins
and now when you write you you supply a
timestamp as a user so you say I'm
writing Lisbon at 11:02 I'm writing a lo
at 11:04 can currently be rights with
11:30 you know in emerge since this
timestamp is bigger than that one you
you mean world wins and the problem here
is that we just lost one of the rights
so a is not happy now mm-hm any systems
well it assumed single unique timestamps
because like if hello and world were
written with the same timestamp what
should we do here and also the problem
is that since the clocks may not be
synchronized I could not try to write
something in the register with let's say
11 17 but it can't because a no world
was written in the future if you want
and I'll just let you read this
so so now we know enough to build this
burrow cancer and again the idea is that
transit nodes will ask something to
permanent notes so the identity in the
form of the dots and the transit nodes
will increment the counter using these
dots and you can maybe already imagine
that sister using these dots and we have
the causal context we can do this trick
where we'll be able to forget that these
transit know that we're existed so what
will build it from block small steps and
in the end we'll get the final design so
initially going to have a dot map to the
value of the counter and the causal
context and now we have a so start sweet
the counter at zero and it's just
increments okay so this this slides just
means that this is where we'll keep the
value of the counter sorry in this end
but now we also need to track who owns
which dot so it's replica should say
this is the that I have this is that I
can use to increment the counter so
before we had just a single map from
dots to Naturals now we're going to map
identifiers to this map so this means
that if some replicas an entry to live
some dots here two years and in this in
this example we have to note is a
permanent node and 3t is transient
okay so we're creating a dot so we can
increment a a that is permanent it
creates a dot for itself you later on
tt-that joined the system will ask okay
i want to increment a counter give me a
dots so we can see here this is the dot
of T which is beta so now if T wants to
increment our value by 17
you just increments that position and
now you have a problem which is T wants
to live but we are
no way to tell that in the States right
so the idea is that we're going to make
tea make a promise that it will never
increment the counter and we're going to
use that as a way to safely removed tea
from the tea from that map and so
transit notes should mark dots as
inactive and for that so what changed
here is that now we have this boolean
here that will say these the dots active
or not and this is the final design of
the bar country so same example and now
you see that the dot is active so it's
like the underline active mmm same
example now it increments we have this
dot active and now to retire we simply
marketers inactive and now when ace is
this it will understand that tea wants
to leave the system it doesn't have all
these dots are inactive so I can just
transfer all those increments to me ok
great so you can see that in this
execution we had to eat he joined the
system it did what it wanted its I don't
want do anything anymore I'll just leave
and there's no impact in the states
okay so that's what we covered we have a
design for counters that it still works
over these unreliable networks where
think and file and we may need to retry
we focus on an increment only counters
but these works if you want to just
decrement it's a trivial exercise to add
that and what we didn't cover so this is
like some work by a slab I'm copying no
no slides so okay there are other CIT
variants Delta State base this paper
shows some problems that we found while
implementing the pure operation base so
this composition is when we have several
see our duties
and we want to put them once inside the
others like put Cantor's inside maps and
these are two papers that show possible
problems and potential solutions for
that and I didn't find the name for this
part but so these scalable eventual
consistency counters is work that tries
to solve this exact problem I was
describing da to DB uses as a way to
synchronize two replicas without using
myrtle trees so you may be interested in
looking at that and this last one is
when you have a partition and you want
to synchronize to state based charities
efficiently if you want okay and that's
it
[Applause]
so the last example reminds me of
acquiring the lease to be able to write
to a specific country once you return
the lease then you can go away is the is
the binding of that lease to a specific
permanent node because that permanent
note is the one that is going to execute
that merging yeah exactly
so not only all permanent notes can
merge so it's like if I created that for
you only you can incorporate my
increments so if you wanted to
virtualize those nodes you would have to
have some way of transitioning who is
operating that merging as an if you if
you want to step further and saying we
don't know all these permanent notes how
long they're gonna stay but we can
create a virtual leaders yeah that and
then you acquire the the merge kept
capability on that virtual leave yeah
that means your wire at lease on writing
and you whoever has the merge capability
can merge those yeah that's an
interesting way to look for it so this
is just working progress so just
presenting one of the problems that I
think there exists currently in state
authorities that your state will live
will be polluted by all the replicas
that ever did something in this state so
this may be a way to start looking at
this and try to do stuff leave the
system without having a permanent impact
forever I think it's natural leads to
aggregation trees so you can compose
these in a long chain and over time
merge operation so these work here I
think they have that kind of approach
where you have you propose an error key
between nodes and you can do that in
that way that you're proposing yeah
thank you
[Applause]